Abbaspour, Hossein & Abbaspour, Fatemeh. (2022). Renewable Energy Systems in the Mining Industry: A Literature Review and Research Agenda. International Journal of Renewable Energy Research. 12. 569-580. 10.20508/ijrer.v12i1.12828.g8438. Renewable energy (RE) sources such as solar, wind, geothermal, hydropower, and biofuels are counted as clean energies, which their implication is becoming widespread. These sources are mostly favorable because of their environmental-friendly features compared to the conventional energy sources such as fossil fuels. Accordingly, the daily tendency to apply RE sources and hereupon RE systems in households and industries is observable. Likewise, as a leading industry in raw material production, the mining industry is trying to take advantage of these systems in its different stages, from exploration to mineral processing. Getting know the potentials, applications, and advances in the mining industry, this study presents a literature review on the scientific works performed in this area. By identifying 40 research articles, conference papers, theses, and dissertations in the literature review process, they could be divided into three main topics: 1) potential and feasibility analysis, 2) RE system selection and, 3) application and perspective of RE systems. Reviewing these studies revealed although some valuable contributions in this field were carried out in the recent decade, still more research and contributions are desirable in the future. Accordingly, the following items were proposed as research agenda: 1) multi-factor evaluations, 2) optimization methods, 3) mine and mineral processing operations and, 4) software development.